hi guys this is jane era and here's a
video of me doing some light front
squats i'm just coming to the end of my
offseason I'm sixteen weeks out from my
next competition which is raw unity meet
seven also known as rum it's gonna be a
great meet it's a champion of champions
meet it's gonna be some really big
weights moved there by some really
strong guys and I'm excited and
motivated to be competing in it again
so when I'm in the offseason my main
focus is in getting over any major
injuries that I have I want to make sure
I have a strong foundation so I usually
lift moderately heavy weights or lighter
weights with a lot of volume and I just
want to get into my competition prep
phase with a good foundation underneath
me and a healthy body to push me forward
unfortunately I do have a little bit of
an injury my wrist flexor is causing me
problems
so wrist stability and grip have been an
issue the back squat and the deadlift
I've had to avoid them for the last
couple weeks I can still bench press
just not super heavy to make up for the
deadlift or to replace the deadlift in
the back squat I have been doing
handless safety bar squats to build up
my back my upper back specifically and
I've been doing more front squats than I
normally would I'm a big advocate of the
front squat I've always loved them I
think they are staple for any quad
dominant squatter the very important and
building technique and building up the
foundation they force you to use the
quads they're not just more of a quad
exercise they literally force you to use
the quads because the second you try to
switch over to the posterior chain
you're just going to drop the bar
forward anyone who's followed me who's
followed my training log lose watch me
compete or competed against me has seen
me warm up with a front squat whenever
I'm back squatting
I have always done this since about 2007
so I always go one plate to play three
plates and then it's not until the
fourth plate that that I do my first
back squat and I find that this just
makes me feel very grooved and it just
feels much better to warm up that way to
me it always has so I haven't back squat
at anything less than 405 and about in
almost seven years when I front squat I
usually like to work up to a moderately
heavy weight I just go a little bit
heavier than what I'm gonna be using for
my working sets so you would have see me
go up to five plates I did a really
quick single felt really good and now
I'm backing down to four plates I'm just
doing four set to eight for this workout
I wasn't sure if I was gonna do four or
five sets eight I just wanted to get a
lot of volume in with a lighter weight I
don't normally do this normally I like
to do to do anywhere sets of two to five
reps to being when I'm going a little
bit heavier and then and then five reps
when I'm trying to challenge myself when
I'm doing a lot of reps the the real
thing is the real hard part the limiting
factor is your rack position quite often
the legs will be strong enough but
you'll lose it you'll lose it at the top
but like I said today I'm going a little
bit lighter so this is because I've been
doing a lot of front squatting and when
I when I do too much heavy front
squatting that's when my knees start to
hurt a little bit and that's not because
front squatting is bad for your knees
it's because when I go heavy if I'm not
if I'm not perfect with my technique I
shift onto my toes a little bit and
that's when it gets rough on the knees
so here you see me kind of doing a
piston fashion I only do that when I'm
going really light I never do that
when I'm doing any serious weight so
it's kind of me disrespecting the weight
even though I shouldn't be but yeah so I
really just make sure that I set it up
behind my shoulders so I got my
shoulders ahead of the
I put it on my collarbone and right when
it's about to choke you that's that's
the right spot if it's choking you you
just move it forward two millimeters you
get your shoulders ahead of the bar you
lift your elbows up and you're good to
go so after you walk it out
I just think about standing up tall
keeping my elbows up my chest stop
sitting on my heels pulling my knees up
stand up as strong as you can